For the final rollercoaster design, I have come up with the perfect new drop and initial drop height, and the mass of the car so that the rollercoaster will stay under .
m s but over .
m s. So today, I will be telling you what I think is the best decision for the rollercoaster to make it fun and exciting but also safe.
The first thing I will be talking to you about is the initial drop.
I think that the best height for the initial drop is .
meters which is lower than I originally thought.
I think this because in order for the ride to be safe enough for people to ride it, it needs to be under .
m s. So when I made the height meters, the speed got up to .
m s which is really unsafe.
However, when I made the initial drop .
meters, the speed got up to about .
m s which is just under the top amount causing the ride to still be fun.
Also, this proves that height and speed are directly related because the higher I made the initial drop, the more speed the coaster had.
Also, height and energy are directly related because the higher I made the initial drop the more potential and kinetic energy the car had throughout the ride.
However, the amount of potential energy the coaster has at the top of the first drop is equal to the total amount of energy the coaster has the whole ride.
This means that the initial drop has to be the highest drop on the ride, or the car wont be able to make it over any other hills.
When you are going down the first drop, potential energy is shifting into kinetic energy, meaning PE and KE are inversely related.
This is because you are getting closer to the ground, which means that the amount of meters high you are goes down.
And since height only takes place in the potential energy equation PE h x g x m, KE m x v , that causes the amount of potential energy to go down.
But why does the kinetic energy go up This is because of energy transformation and the Law of Conservation of energy.
This law says that energy can never be created or destroyed, it can only be transformed into other forms of energy.
So as the potential energy goes down, it transfers into kinetic energy causing the kinetic energy to go up.
This same rule can be applied not just for the initial drop, but all over the rollercoaster, including the second hill in the rollercoaster.
When you are going up the hill, kinetic energy is being transformed back into potential energy because the height is going up.
For the first hill of the rollercoaster, I think it should be meters, and heres why.
Since I changed the initial drop height to .
meters instead of , I also had to change the first hill height too because if I would have kept it at .
meters, the car wouldnt make it over the top.
This is due to what we talked about earlier, and how the initial drop has to be the highest point in the rollercoaster.
Also, when the hill is meters the speed still goes over .
m s but stays under .
m s which ensures a safe ride.
Lastly, I am going to be talking about the mass of the car and why I think it should be kg.
In my experiment, I discovered that the higher you made the mass, the more kinetic and potential energy the object had throughout the ride.
This means that mass and energy are directly related.
When I made the mass of the car kg, the total energy on the ride was only J.
But when I made the mass kg, the total energy was J.
So kg is the best mass for the car.
However, mass and speed dont have any relationship at all.
This means that no matter the mass of the car, the rollercoaster will go the same speed.
I know this because when I made the mass kg, the speed at the end of the ride was .
m s, and when I made the mass kg, the speed was also .
m s. So since the mass of the car doesnt really affect the speed and only the energy of the car, I think is a good mass for the car.
Now that Ive told you what I think the best design is, I hope you take it into consideration.
My rollercoaster design will be both fun and exciting, as well as safe for all of the riders.
Thank you for listening.
