Dear Gonzala family The ID height is going to be .m because if it is small it will not make it over all the hills and if it does not we will not makeover all the loops and hills.
My trial was .
and the PE on the top was and with KE on top and o pe on bottom KE total was .
what is your hill height going to be I am thinking I am going to go with .m because that leaves us m of space for going to go faster and it wont go slow and get stuck we need to have the speed to make it over all the loops and hills and turns etc.
My example is hill height is with PE top of ID was my KE top of ID was and PE top of the hill is and for KE top hill and the car made it to the end.
The more hill height the more PE on the hill but less KE top hill.
The law conservation of energy is that the bigger ID the more energy we can carry for loops and hills for the roller coaster track.
The mass is going to be because the more car mass the more PE on top of ID so we can enough KE bottom for to make it and an example.
Car mass PE on top ID and KE bottom of the drop is with a total of .
The relationship of ID and hill hight is that the bigger the same or less the hill has to be.
The height of my initial drop is and how it relates to my Potential energy and kinetic energy at the bottom is .
j .
the relationship between Potential energy and kinetic energy and total energy affects my ride is that the energy gives the cars speed to reach the end of my ride.
the changes in my PE and KE when the car moves down a hill are that The PE and KE give energy to the car to go over the hill.
Having enough PE make the car go faster and reach the end, what happens to PE and Ke and the total energy is that it transfers.
The relationship between the id height and hill height is that the more height the hill has the farther the car goes.
PE and KE,Total energy makes the cars ability of speed to make it through the ride.
Height increases the speed of the car .m s to reach the safety requirements.
I did not go for a higher ID because the speed of the car will go over the safety requirements.
and having too much mass will slow the car down.
why I dont have a lower ID is because the car will not be able to reach the hill height and having a little bit of mass wont get you anywhere.
